# 2.11.9

Date: 2026-04-27
Tag: 2.11.9

## Overview

2.x is the old stable release series. Users are encouraged to update to the
latest 3.x release.

This is a bugfix release. It resolves 34 issues since the previous
version.

Please consider the full list of user-visible changes below.

## Compatibility

Tarantool 2.x and 3.x are compatible in the binary data layout, client-server
protocol, and replication protocol. It means upgrade may be performed with zero
downtime for read requests and the order-of-network-lag downtime for write
requests.

Please follow the [upgrade procedure][upgrade] to plan your update actions.

[upgrade]: https://www.tarantool.io/en/doc/latest/book/admin/upgrades/

## Tools

Introduced the `misc.memprof.available` and `misc.sysprof.available` flags to
determine whether the corresponding profiler is available for the current
Tarantool build (gh-12215).

## Bugs fixed

### Core

* Fixed a bug when Tarantool could hang due to `box.watch` (gh-9632).
* Fixed a bug where `.xlog.inprogress` files were not automatically deleted
  during server startup if the `wal_dir` value was not the default (gh-12081).
* Introduced the new built-in system event `box.wal_error` that is broadcast
  whenever Tarantool fails to commit a transaction to the write-ahead log
  (gh-9405).
* Fixed a bug where a local space could not be truncated when the `_truncate`
  space was synchronous (gh-12585).

### Election
* Now the leader resigns on the first encounter with the `ER_WAL_IO`
  write error (gh-9399).

### LuaJIT

Backported patches from the vanilla LuaJIT trunk (gh-11691, gh-12134). The
following issues were fixed as part of this activity:

* Fixed incorrect emitting for `IR_TBAR` on aarch64.
* Fixed stack overflow handling for the trace exit.
* Fixed dangling `CType` references.
* Fixed closing VM state after early OOM.
* Fixed emitting for `IR_MUL` on x86/x64.
* Fixed incorrect `stp`/`ldp` instructions fusion on aarch64.
* Fixed SCEV entry invalidation when returning to a lower frame.
* Fixed macOS 15 / Clang 16 build.
* Fixed emitting for `IR_HREFK` on aarch64.
* Added `ffi.abi("dualnum")`.
* Fixed stack checks in varargs calls in the GC64 build.
* Fixed stack checks in `pcall()`/`xpcall()` in the GC64 build.
* Fixed the allocation limit for the no-JIT build.
* Fixed handling of OOM errors on stack resizing in `coroutine.resume()` and
  `lua_checkstack()`.
* Fixed recording of loops with a `-0` `step` value or `NaN` control values.
* Fixed error reporting when an error occurs during error handling.
* Fixed a dangling reference for FFI callbacks.
* Fixed `BC_UNM` for a `-0` argument in the dual-number mode.
* Fixed narrowing of unary minus in the dual-number mode.
* Fixed recording of `string.byte()`, `string.sub()`, and `string.find()`.
* Fixed missing type conversion for `BC_FORI` slots in the dual-number mode.
* Fixed various corner cases in VM events.
* Fixed constructor index resolution recording in the JIT compiler.
* Fixed a UBSan warning in `unpack()`.

### Datetime
* Fixed an assertion failure on an ambiguous case where day of year (`yday`,
  which defines calendar month and month day implicitly) and calendar month
  (without a month day) were both defined in the date text. Now such case is
  detected and an error is thrown (gh-11347).
* Fixed `tzoffset` calculations for cases like `new({timestamp=x, tz='Zone'})`
  (gh-12412).
* Fixed inconsistency between dates produced by `new({tzoffset=x})`
  and `d:set({tzoffset=x})` where `d.tz ~= ''` comes before `set()`
  (gh-7680, gh-12416).
* Now `datetime.new()` and `datetime_object:set()`
  check the timestamp value to be in the valid range (gh-12147).
* Fixed timestamp type checking in `set()` (gh-12411).

For backward compatibility the `compat.datetime_setfn_timestamp_type_check`
option has been introduced. It's disabled by default for now ('old' behaviour),
which means no type check is performed. The 'new' behaviour (with type check)
is planned to be set as the default in version 4.x.
